[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In a nutshell, do you
know where it came from?
It came from World
War I. At the time,
Germany was surrounded
by the Allies.
And a lot of the important
topical materials
didn't reach Germany that
included coffee and morphine.
And then there were
the field hospitals
where constant train
loads of injured and shot
patients, soldiers came in,
and they had to have surgery,
and they had to
be taken care of.
And it was very
difficult because there
was virtually no
morphine-- just maybe
barely enough to go [AUDIO OUT]
but not after the pain was
started, after the surgery.
They wouldn't get it.
And interestingly, not
rarely the surgeons
would order enemas
for such patients.
But it was usually
water or soap enemas.
And on the other
hand, there was always
enough coffee for the surgeons.
Because they often had to
work around the clock--
24, 36 hours-- without sleep.
So there was always
enough coffee for them,
but nobody else,
to keep them awake.
So occasionally there was
some coffee left over.
And the nurses who had
to prepare these enemas
for the operated patients,
they said, the coffee
is doing the
surgeons good, maybe
it'll do the patients good.
And they poured coffee
into their enema buckets.
And the patients reported
that it relieved their pain.
And that was interesting.
And this report came to the
ears of two doctors, scientists
at the University of Gottingen
in Germany after the war.
And they tested it on animals.
And they put caffeine into
the rectum of animals.
And they found that, yes,
it travels to the liver,
to the bile ducts,
and opens these ducts.
And they could see the flow
of bile with the caffeine
into the rectum.
Then a different doctor,
hearing about this research--
and apparently he
claimed that he
heard my father lecture one time
in Berlin many, many years ago.
And he was interested,
and he was a researcher.
So he swallowed-- not
swallowed, actually put it
through his nose, a tube
that goes down the esophagus.
And he released it
to go up to the place
where the bile flows
into the small intestine.
He had that tube
all the way down.
And he could see that when
he was drinking the coffee,
that these same bile ducts
would close, clamp, spasm
and soap over.
Then on himself, he put
caffeine into the rectum.
And he could see
that they opened up
and the bile would flow.
In other words, there was
proof that rectum coffee
works quite opposite and
differently than coffee
you drink.
And, of course, we
still get doctors
who love to make fun
of the Gerson Therapy.
Ha-ha, coffee rectum.
Do you use cream and sugar?
You know, that sort of nonsense.
They don't understand.
They want to make it ridiculous.
On the other hand, I don't
know if you know about this,
but there is such a thing as
the Merck Manual for Medical
Procedures, and coffee
enemas were described
in the Merck Manual until 1973.
Then it disappeared.
Disappeared.
But it was in the Merck Manual.
And we find now that we give
the patients in many cases,
especially in severe
cancer and severe pain,
as many as five enemas a day.
In other words, enemas are not
designed to move the bowel.
They do that anyway,
and that's important,
but that's not
their main function.
The main function is to keep
these bile ducts open so that
with all the release that
we force with the juices
and enzymes, the
release of toxins
that we force into
the bloodstream that
are filtered out through the
liver to help the liver get
rid of it.
Or else, if it
doesn't get rid of it,
it does more damage
to the liver.
And that's the importance
of the coffee enemas.
And you should not--
nobody should do the Gerson
Therapy without enemas.
And you know, when you
have patients that say,
well, you know, I don't mind
juices and the vegetarian food,
that's OK.
But enemas?
That's very often a
problem for patients.
Or it also goes the
other way around.
They say, I don't
mind taking an enema,
but I want to eat
the food I enjoy.
I want to eat my meat or steak
or whatever they want to eat.
I don't want to do that.
Well, you can't do
a half a therapy.
The Gerson Therapy
is a total approach
to all the body's systems.
And it works with
all of the system--
the enzyme system, the hormone
system, the mineral balances,
the immune system.
It works with the
essential organ system.
It works with everything.
And you can't do
a half a therapy.
And it's very, very important
to keep that in mind.
And that's where the food,
the juices, the enemas,
and the enzymes that
we add in addition--
because the patients don't
have anything to work with.
What little they had is dead
and gone with the chemotherapy.
The doctors add to the problem.
We had a patient, a young
man, only 42 years old.
He had had a massive
heart attack at 38.
By the way, did you know that
especially in younger people,
very often the very, very
first symptom of heart disease
is a fatal heart attack.
First, [AUDIO OUT] fatal
in 38% of the patients.
OK, so this young man had
had-- at the age of 38
had had a massive
heart attack, survived.
And he came in obese--
very.
He was 6 foot 2.
I know that was quite
tall, but 300 pounds.
And besides the hard
problem, very high blood
pressure which didn't respond
to drugs for blood pressure.
He had very high diabetes.
He had blood sugar of over 230,
and they couldn't bring it down
with all their drugs.
And he had gout.
And if he stopped the gout
medication for only one day,
he'd have a breakdown of
gout all over his body, all
his joints, OK?
Now we could not take him off
the blood pressure medication
from one day to the next.
You can't do that.
We could not take him
down off of the insulin
from one day to the next.
We couldn't do that.
But the gout medication
one day to the next, gone.
Never had another gout attack.
What does gout come from?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Animal protein.
No animal protein, no gout.
That's very simple.
OK, so it depends very much
on what drugs they're using,
what drugs they are on.
Also like if they
are on morphine plus
codeine, plus patches,
plus, plus, plus, we
can't stop the pain killers
from one moment to the next
because the pain
is so agonizing.
And we don't torture people, OK?
So with the juices,
with the enemas
and doing everything
that needs to be done,
the pain comes down.
Then the medication
comes down, OK?
So it depends on what it is.
I can't make a straight rule.
>> So what happened
with this guy?
Did he get on the
full Gerson Therapy?
>> In six weeks, he
lost 100 pounds--
never was hungry,
never a moment, OK?
And at first, we let him
have only one potato a day.
After 4 and 1/2 weeks,
his diabetes was gone.
So he got potatoes.
Usually patients also
get a fresh fruit plate
in their room, so if they're
hungry they can snack on fruit.
You can't give a fresh
fruit plate to a diabetic,
so he had a fresh
vegetable plate.
He had the little cauliflower.
He had the little
tomatoes-- you know,
the little cherry tomatoes--
and the little cut-up carrot
sticks and cut-up celery sticks.
All kinds-- big
plate so he could
eat whenever he wanted to.
He was never hungry one
moment because this food truly
satisfied him.
He had no appetite.
He had no craving.
He had no problem.
And in five weeks, he
was past the diabetes.
And slowly, slowly, the
blood pressure and everything
came down.
By the end of I think
it was eight weeks,
he had lost 100 pounds.
And he was-- at 6 foot
2, he was 205 or so.
He was a little bit chubby
but fairly normal, OK,
without ever being hungry.
And we had him off
drugs and everything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]